Valkey-Glide Go client public preview release announcement blog (#218)
valkey-io/valkey-io.github.io: content/blog/2025-03-4-go-client-in-public-preview.md

+++
title= "Introducing the Valkey Glide Go Client: Now in Public Preview!"

> description = "Valkey Glide is now supports GO, designed for performance and developer productivity"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "Valkey Glide now supports GO, designed for performance and developer productivity"
```

> description = "Valkey Glide now supports GO. The new client designed for performance and developer productivity"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "Valkey Glide now supports GO. Read to learn more about the new client designed for performance and developer productivity"
```

authors= [ "niharikabhavaraju"]
+++

Valkey-Glide is pleased to announce the public preview release of the GLIDE(General Language Independent Driver for the Enterprise) Go client. This release brings the power and reliability of Valkey to Go developers with an API designed for performance and developer productivity.

Valkey GLIDE is a multi-language client for Valkey, designed for operational excellence and incorporating best practices refined through years of experience. GLIDE ensures a consistent and unified client experience across applications, regardless of the programming language.

Currently, GLIDE supports Java, Node.js, and Python. This announcement introduces the Valkey GLIDE support for Go, expanding support to Go developers and providing new connectivity to Valkey servers, including both standalone and cluster deployments.

## Why You Should Be Excited

The Go client extends Valkey GLIDE to the Go community, offering a robust, client that's built on the battle-tested Rust core. This client library is a thoughtfully designed experience for Go developers who need reliable, high-performance data access.

## Key Features

### Advanced Cluster Topology Management

> Connect to your Valkey cluster with minimal configuration. The client seamlessly detects the entire cluster topology and automatically configures connection management based on industry best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect to your Valkey cluster with minimal configuration. The client automatically detects the entire cluster topology and configures connection management based on industry best practices.
```

Author: done

```go
config := api.NewGlideClusterClientConfiguration().
    WithAddress(&api.NodeAddress{Host: "localhost", Port: 6379})

client, err := api.NewGlideClusterClient(config)
```

> The Go client provides advanced topology management to ensure cluster reliability and performance
> With just a single seed node address, GLIDE handles the complexity of cluster interaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Go client provides advanced topology managements features such as:
```

Author: done

#### Automatic Topology Discovery

GLIDE automatically discovers all cluster nodes from a single seed node, eliminating the need to manually configure every node address. The NodeAddress can be an IP address, hostname, or fully qualified domain name (FQDN).

#### Dynamic Topology Maintenance

Cluster topology can change over time as nodes are added, removed, or when slot ownership changes. GLIDE implements several mechanisms to maintain an accurate view of the cluster:

> - **Proactive Topology Monitoring**: GLIDE performs periodic background checks for cluster topology changes, This approach ensures a comprehensive and up-to-date view of the cluster, improving availability and reducing tail latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Proactive Topology Monitoring**: GLIDE performs periodic background checks for cluster topology changes. This approach ensures a comprehensive and up-to-date view of the cluster, improving availability and reducing tail latency.
```

Author: done

#### Connection Storm Prevention

When network events occur, connection storms can overwhelm servers with simultaneous reconnection attempts. GLIDE mitigates this risk through backoff algorithm with jitter that distributes reconnection attempts over time, protecting servers from sudden connection surges.

Robust connection handling with automatic reconnection strategies ensures your application remains resilient even during network instability:

```go
// Configure a custom reconnection strategy with exponential backoff
config := api.NewGlideClientConfiguration().
    WithAddress(&api.NodeAddress{Host: "localhost", Port: 6379}).
    WithReconnectStrategy(api.NewBackoffStrategy(
        5, // Initial delay in milliseconds
        10, // Maximum attempts
        50 // Maximum delay in milliseconds
    ))
```

#### Multiplexed Connection

Rather than maintaining connection pools, GLIDE establishes a single multiplexed connection per cluster node. This architectural choice:

- Minimizes the total number of TCP connections to servers
- Reduces system call overhead
- Maintains high throughput through efficient connection pipelining
- Decreases server-side connection management burden

> ### Developer-Friendly Error Handling

Reviewer: I still don't understand how this is developer friendly. The example seems unfriendly, just looking at that I have no idea what the behavior is. When is err not nil, what are the different ways I can handle it. Is there a developer guide you can point to that show all the different errors modes. I think including an example of catching the types of errors would be helpful, Bar had an example.

Reviewer: Is this section updated? It looks the same still.

Author: it is updated https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-io.github.io/pull/218/files#diff-74e822987aa30303fd98f91b83ca8075642aad2386e0d0bf44312494a7967a72R89

Reviewer: I think I just disagree that the result is developer friendly. When I'm working with a SQL driver, I don't have to handle 6 unique types of errors (and a generic catch all). I really expect this to be broken down in to:
1. Terminal error (The developer did something wrong. Most server errors)
2. Maybe retryable errors (The server may have executed the command, or maybe not, requires you to decide. Timeouts.
3. Earlier in this document we describe that we transparently handle reconnects, so why is their a disconnect and Closed error here? Connect error makes sense when it's like an auth error or something.

Author: I understand, thank you for the feedback and highlighting these points. I'm removing this section for now and will try to enhance error handling in future releases.

We've implemented standardized error handling to make debugging and error management straightforward:

```go
result, err := client.Get("mykey")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("Glide example failed with an error: ", err.Msg)
}
```

No matter what kind of error occurs—whether it's a connection timeout, authentication failure, or invalid argument—the go client provides a consistent error interface. Under the hood, the go client categorizes errors into specific types like ConnectionError, TimeoutError, or RequestError, but you can handle them uniformly with a clean, consistent API.

> ### Built for Performance

Reviewer: I just want to call out I think this is a great section. It defines the space and then how you are innovating in it.

> ### Built for Performance
> 
> The Go client is designed from the ground up with performance in mind:
> 
> #### Concurrent Command Execution
> 
> The Go client provides a synchronous API for simplicity and compatibility with existing Go key-value store clients. While each individual command is blocking (following the familiar patterns in the ecosystem), the client is fully thread-safe and designed for concurrent usage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Built for Performance

The Go client is designed from the ground up with performance in mind while still being simple to use.
The Go client provides a synchronous API for simplicity and compatibility with existing Go key-value store clients. While each individual command is blocking (following the familiar patterns in the ecosystem), the client is fully thread-safe and designed for concurrent usage:
```

Author: done

    var wg sync.WaitGroup
    
    // Launch 10 concurrent operations
    for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
        wg.Add(1)
        go func(idx int) {
            defer wg.Done()
            key := fmt.Sprintf("key:%d", idx)
            value := fmt.Sprintf("value:%d", idx)
            
            // Each command blocks within its goroutine, but all 10 run concurrently
            _, err := client.Set(key, value)
            if err != nil {
                fmt.Printf("Error setting %s: %v\n", key, err)
                return
            }
            
            result, err := client.Get(key)
            if err != nil {
                fmt.Printf("Error getting %s: %v\n", key, err)
                return
            }
            
            fmt.Printf("Result for %s: %s\n", key, result)
        }(i)
    }
    
    wg.Wait()
}
```

Under the hood, the client efficiently handles these concurrent requests by:

1. Using a single multiplexed connection per node to pipeline concurrent commands, minimizing socket overhead and system resources
2. Implementing thread-safe command execution
3. Efficiently routing concurrent commands to the appropriate server nodes

> While the current API is synchronous, the implementation is specifically optimized for concurrent usage through Go's native goroutines. The team is monitoring user feedback to assess whether to add async/channel-based APIs in future releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the current API is synchronous, the implementation is specifically optimized for concurrent usage through Go's native goroutines. We would love feedback about whether to add async/channel-based APIs in future releases.
```
I don't feel strongly about this, but I think this wording is a little bit more inclusive to build a community.

Author: done

## Getting Started

> The Valkey GLIDE Go client provides a seamless experience for Go developers to interact with Valkey servers. With support for both standalone and cluster deployments, it's designed to be easy to integrate into your existing Go applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think it's punchier without this. Doesn't seem to add much.

Author: done

Checkout our [Valkey GLIDE go client](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/tree/main/go) for the source code.
For implementation examples, please refer to the [README of the Go examples](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/blob/main/go/README.md) for instructions on running the Standalone and Cluster examples.

For a complete reference of all available commands and their parameters, explore the [Go API documentation on pkg.go.dev](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/go/api), which provides detailed information on method signatures, parameters, and return types.

## Contributors

A huge thank you to all the contributors who have made this possible - your dedication and expertise have created something truly special for the Go community.

[Janhavi Gupta](https://github.com/janhavigupta007) (Google Cloud Platform)

[Niharika Bhavaraju](https://github.com/niharikabhavaraju) (Google Cloud Platform)

[Edric Cuartero](https://github.com/EdricCua) (Google Cloud Platform)

[Omkar Mestry](https://github.com/omangesg) (Google Cloud Platform)

> [Yury Fridlyand](https://github.com/Yury-Fridlyand) (Amazon Web Services)

Reviewer: Yury does not work for AWS, he works for improving @Yury-Fridlyand, what do you want to say here?

Author: I updated this

> [Prateek Kumar](https://github.com/prateek-kumar-improving) (Amazon Web Services)

Reviewer: Also working for improving.

Author: done

authors= [ "niharikabhavaraju"]
+++

Valkey-Glide is pleased to announce the public preview release of the GLIDE(General Language Independent Driver for the Enterprise) Go client. This release brings the power and reliability of Valkey to Go developers with an API designed for performance and developer productivity.

Valkey GLIDE is a multi-language client for Valkey, designed for operational excellence and incorporating best practices refined through years of experience. GLIDE ensures a consistent and unified client experience across applications, regardless of the programming language.

Currently, GLIDE supports Java, Node.js, and Python. This announcement introduces the Valkey GLIDE support for Go, expanding support to Go developers and providing new connectivity to Valkey servers, including both standalone and cluster deployments.

## Why You Should Be Excited

The Go client extends Valkey GLIDE to the Go community, offering a robust, client that's built on the battle-tested Rust core. This client library is a thoughtfully designed experience for Go developers who need reliable, high-performance data access.

## Key Features

### Advanced Cluster Topology Management

> Connect to your Valkey cluster with minimal configuration. The client automatically discovers the entire cluster topology - no need to manually track every node!

Author: I modified this, thanks

- **Proactive Topology Monitoring**: GLIDE performs periodic background checks for cluster topology changes, This approach ensures a comprehensive and up-to-date view of the cluster, improving availability and reducing tail latency.
- **Consensus-Based Resolution**: GLIDE queries multiple nodes for their topology view and selects the one with the highest agreement, reducing the risk of stale or incorrect mappings and ensuring a more accurate and up-to-date cluster view, improving the overall availability of the cluster.
- **Efficient Resource Management**: GLIDE employs an efficient algorithm to compare node views and dynamically throttles client-management requests to prevent overloading Valkey servers, ensuring a balance between maintaining an up-to-date topology map and optimizing resource utilization.

#### Request Routing

In a cluster, data is divided into slots with each primary node responsible for specific slots. GLIDE adheres to Valkey OSS guidelines to route commands to the correct node based on key distribution, automatically handling the slot-to-node mapping complexity.

> For more details on the routing of specific commands, please refer to the documentation within the code for routing configuration.

Author: removed this section

+++
title= "Introducing the Valkey Glide Go Client: Now in Public Preview!"

> description = "Valkey Glide is pleased to announce the public preview release of the GLIDE Go Client"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "Valkey Glide is now supports GO, designed for performance and developer productivity."
```

// Write to primary
client.Set("key1", "value1")

// Automatically reads from a replica (round-robin)
result, err := client.Get("key1")
```

Available strategies:

- **PRIMARY**: Always read from primary nodes for the freshest data
- **PREFER_REPLICA**: Distribute reads across replicas in round-robin fashion, falling back to primary when needed

Planned for future release:

- **AZ_AFFINITY**: (Coming soon) Prefer replicas in the same availability zone as the client

### Authentication and TLS

Secure your connections with built-in authentication and TLS support:

```go
// Configure with authentication
config := api.NewGlideClientConfiguration().
    WithAddress(&api.NodeAddress{Host: "localhost", Port: 6379}).
    WithCredentials(api.NewServerCredentials("username", "password")).
    WithUseTLS(true) // Enable TLS for encrypted connections
```

### Request Timeout and Handling

Fine-tune timeout settings for different workloads:

```go
// Set a longer timeout for operations that may take more time
config := api.NewGlideClientConfiguration().
    WithAddress(&api.NodeAddress{Host: "localhost", Port: 6379}).
    WithRequestTimeout(500) // 500ms timeout
```

> ## Behind the Scenes: Technical Architecture
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Behind the Scenes: Technical Architecture

The Valkey GLIDE Go client is built on top of the Valkey GLIDE core. The core framework is written in Rust (lib.rs), which exposes public functions. These functions are converted to a C header file using Cbindgen. The Go client then uses CGO to call these C functions, providing Go developers with an idiomatic interface while leveraging Rust's performance advantages. This architecture ensures consistent behavior across all Valkey GLIDE language implementations (Java, Python, Node.js, and Go) while maintaining performance and reliability.

```

```text
+------------+      +------+      +------------+      +------------+      +------------+
|            |      |      |      |            |      |            |      |            |
|    Go      |----->|      |----->|  C Header  |----->|    Rust    |----->|   Valkey   |
|  Client    |      |  CGO |      |  cbindgen  |      |    Core    |      |   Server   |
|            |<-----|      |<-----|            |<-----|            |<-----|            |
|            |      |      |      |            |      |            |      |            |
+------------+      +------+      +------------+      +------------+      +------------+
```

Valkey GLIDE's Go client brings the power of Valkey to Go developers through a sophisticated multi-language architecture.

### Technical Components

- **Go Client**: The language-specific interface for Go developers
- **CGO**: Allows Go code to call C functions
- **Cbindgen**: Automates the generation of C header files from Rust public APIs
- **Rust Core**: High-performance framework that connects to and communicates with Valkey servers
- **Rust FFI Library**: Enables cross-language function calls between Rust and other languages

> The implementation workflow is straightforward: The core framework is written in Rust (lib.rs), which exposes public functions. These functions are converted to a C header file using Cbindgen. The Go client then uses CGO to call these C functions, providing Go developers with an idiomatic interface while leveraging Rust's performance advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core framework is written in Rust (lib.rs), which exposes public functions. These functions are converted to a C header file using Cbindgen. The Go client then uses CGO to call these C functions, providing Go developers with an idiomatic interface while leveraging Rust's performance advantages.
```

> ```text
> +------------+      +------+      +------------+      +------------+      +------------+
> |            |      |      |      |            |      |            |      |            |
> |    Go      |----->|      |----->|  C Header  |----->|    Rust    |----->|   Valkey   |
> |  Client    |      |  CGO |      |  cbindgen  |      |    Core    |      |   Server   |
> |            |<-----|      |<-----|            |<-----|            |<-----|            |
> |            |      |      |      |            |      |            |      |            |
> +------------+      +------+      +------------+      +------------+      +------------+
> ```
> 
> Valkey GLIDE's Go client brings the power of Valkey to Go developers through a sophisticated multi-language architecture.
> 
> ### Technical Components
> 
> - **Go Client**: The language-specific interface for Go developers
> - **CGO**: Allows Go code to call C functions
> - **Cbindgen**: Automates the generation of C header files from Rust public APIs
> - **Rust Core**: High-performance framework that connects to and communicates with Valkey servers
> - **Rust FFI Library**: Enables cross-language function calls between Rust and other languages
> 
> The implementation workflow is straightforward: The core framework is written in Rust (lib.rs), which exposes public functions. These functions are converted to a C header file using Cbindgen. The Go client then uses CGO to call these C functions, providing Go developers with an idiomatic interface while leveraging Rust's performance advantages.
> 
> This architecture ensures consistent behavior across all Valkey GLIDE language implementations (Java, Python, Node.js, and Go) while maintaining performance and reliability.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### Component details
```text
+------------+      +------+      +------------+      +------------+      +------------+
|            |      |      |      |            |      |            |      |            |
|    Go      |----->|      |----->|  C Header  |----->|    Rust    |----->|   Valkey   |
|  Client    |      |  CGO |      |  cbindgen  |      |    Core    |      |   Server   |
|            |<-----|      |<-----|            |<-----|            |<-----|            |
|            |      |      |      |            |      |            |      |            |
+------------+      +------+      +------------+      +------------+      +------------+
```

- **Go Client**: The language-specific interface for Go developers
- **CGO**: Allows Go code to call C functions
- **Cbindgen**: Automates the generation of C header files from Rust public APIs
- **Rust Core**: High-performance framework that connects to and communicates with Valkey servers
- **Rust FFI Library**: Enables cross-language function calls between Rust and other languages
````

## Join the Journey

This public preview is just the beginning. We're actively developing and enhancing the Go wrapper, and we'd love your feedback and contributions. Try it out in your projects, share your experiences, and help us make it even better!
You can join our development journey by:

- Submitting issues or feature requests on our [GitHub Issues page](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues)
- Joining discussions in our [GitHub Discussions forum](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/discussions)

## Looking Forward

> As we move toward general availability, we'll be expanding command support, enhancing performance, and adding even more features to make the Valkey GLIDE Go client the best possible choice for Go developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we move toward general availability, we'll be expanding command support, enhancing performance, and adding even more features to make the Valkey GLIDE Go client the a great choice for Go developers.
```

> Start building with Valkey GLIDE for Go today, and experience the difference that a thoughtfully designed, high-performance client can make in your applications!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
